# manure-amr-indicators
Data and Code to accompany manuscript.

# Abstract
Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) is introduced into the environment through the application of manure on row crops. There is an increasing need to understand the role of farm management factors on resulting AMR in stored manure to minimize risk to human health. There is also a need to evaluate the variation of antibiotic resistance gene (ARG) indicators in manure from different farms to inform monitoring studies. Here, we compared the ARG profile of 50 swine confinements in Iowa and analyzed the effects of management factors (production system, company integrator, and antibiotic management) on two ARG concentrations, ermB and tetM. Additionally, we analyzed 31 different ARGs at 14 farms to evaluate the representation of ARGs in the manure. Our results suggest farm management may impact ARGs in stored manure. The company integrator had an effect on ermB concentrations (p=0.0138). Production system and antibiotic management did not have a significant effect on either ARG. Our broader analysis on ARG profiles found that the tet(36) gene was the only ARG detected in all 14 farms, while tetT, tetM, erm(35), ermF, ermB, str, aadD, and intl3 were detected in the majority of farms. These genes are representative ARGs of swine manure and should be used to inform future watershed monitoring efforts when manure is a suspected source of AMR contamination. Our farm management results will help inform decision management for AMR stewardship. Furthermore, the large variation detected in ARG profiles at individual farms calls for the use of multiple recommended ARG indicators for environmental monitoring and the necessity for uniquely treating distinct manure sources.
